---
title: Writing good code
tags: code advice
layout: post
---

The golden rule to writing good code is: 

**Understand what you want your code to do.**

Once you understand this, writing the code to do it becomes much easier. You can refine
your code to perform specific tasks well once you know what you want to accomplish.

## Make it modular
It's better to have multiple small modules that play a specific role, than to have a 
huge mess of monolithic code. Making your code modular allows you to change things 
without having to change a lot of code. This also allows you to reuse modules of code 
in other projects, rather than having to write the same code again.

## Keep it simple
If there's a simpler way to do something, you should probably go that way. Your code 
should be as easy to understand as possible for someone else who is reading it. Apart 
from being understandable, this also makes your code maintainable. In most cases, the 
simplest way to do something is the best.

## Keep it object-oriented
The big idea behind object-oriented programming is code reuse. You should try and make 
your code as object-oriented as possible. Wherever you find yourself repeating some 
code multiple times (repeating it conceptually, that is), there's probably a more 
object-oriented way to do it. Create classes even when you know you won't be creating 
many instances of those classes, or using those instances very frequently. Once again, 
this makes your code easier to understand and maintain.

This should be enough to improve your code a little. If your code hasn't changed after
reading this, you're probably already practicing most of these guidelines, which means
you're a good coder. This list will probably grow as I write more code. Until then,
keep coding well.
